# Source: https://cambriausa.com/content/dam/cusa/non-cambria-publications/qmaa-press-release-safeguard-4.1.26.pdf

Quartz Manufacturing Alliance of America Commends ITC for Affirmative Injury Determination in Global Safeguard Case Washington DC, April 1st, 2026 - The Quartz Manufacturing Alliance of America (QMAA) today commended the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) for its affirmative injury determination in the Global Safeguard petition filed by the coalition in September. The affirmative determination signifies the ITC’s recognition of the serious injury caused by a surge of quartz surface imports entering the United States from around the globe. “Today’s ITC injury determination is a great step forward for American quartz manufacturing and the 100,000 American jobs this industry supports” remarked Luke Meisner, Counsel for QMAA. “With foreign quartz imports representing nearly 90% of the U.S. market, we are confident that the ITC will recommend that the President take decisive action in the coming weeks.” “We applaud today’s ITC injury determination that recognizes the negative impact of the flood of foreign quartz surface products coming into our country,” said Cambria CEO Marty Davis. “These quartz imports don’t just put slab manufacturers at risk, they also steal business from downstream American fabricators. Now is the time to stop the cheating. Free and fair trade, and a level playing field is all that U.S. manufacturers desire.” “Today, when I walk through the plant, I see uncertainty and fear in the eyes of employees who worry they may be next to be let go,” remarked Daniel Vaz De Melo Sa, Business Development Manager of Guidoni USA. “The ITC’s injury determination marks significant progress towards saving this great American manufacturing industry.” “Our industry is at risk without safeguard measures in place,” remarked Michael Morici, Vice President of Surfaces at LX Hausys America. “Thanks to the ITC’s vote, we are one step closer to saving American quartz jobs and remain committed to reinvestment and growth.” The domestic quartz manufacturing industry supports over 100,000 American jobs across the country. These jobs are in jeopardy due to the flood of unfairly traded imports from nations such as India, Thailand, Vietnam, and Malaysia, which is why QMAA filed a Global Safeguard petition to initiate this case. -- 1 of 2 -- About the Quartz Manufacturing Alliance for America QMAA is a coalition of U.S.-based, American quartz slab manufacturing factories, united with other industry leaders to support and strengthen the American quartz industry. QMAA is committed to ensuring a free and fair, competitive marketplace born of free enterprise that provides the opportunity to compete on a level playing field for American quartz slab manufacturing factories and their valued workers. We also believe this effort will have a positive impact throughout the entire quartz surfacing industry, including to the strong benefit of American stone fabrication shops and upstream suppliers of quartz minerals and resin. Learn more at: https://www.qmaa.org/ -- 2 of 2 --