# Source: https://cambriausa.com/content/dam/cusa/sales-marketing-collateral/warranty-care-maintenance/cambria-product-care-and-maintenance-information-english.pdf

CAMBRIA PRODUCT CARE & MAINTENANCE INFORMATION CAMBRIA Maintaining Cambria Product is easy. Simply wash with a soft cotton cloth and warm water; use a mild soap if desired Do not expose, in use or otherwise, Cambria Product to abrasive, strong alkaline, acid, free radicals, oxidizers, or cleaners of the like (whether high, neutral, or low pH). Various chemicals are corrosive and/or erosive in their ability to attack any surface, including Cambria Product. Be very aware of these potential damages to its surface. Cambria is not heat-proof, chemical-proof, or fracture-proof in any form. Be aware of damaging exposure to these potentially damaging acts. Do not use or expose Cambria Product to certain cleaning products, including, but not limited to, bleach, oven cleaners, Comet®, Soft Scrub®, S.O.S.® pads, products with pumice, batteries, paint removers, furniture strippers, tarnish or silver cleaners, or the like. Do not use abrasive or harsh scrub pads. Do not apply any sealers, penetrants, or topical treatments to Cambria Product under any circumstances. Such products will wear off and cause the gloss to appear dull or inconsistent. Contact Cambria for further information by calling 1-866-CAMBRIA (1-866-226-2742) or visiting our website at CambriaUSA.com. 1. Cambria Product is created from pure natural quartz stone. Variation in natural quartz stone color, pattern, size, shape, and shade are unique and inherent characteristics of this product. 2. Color blotches are intentionally included in many designs to enhance the Product's natural beauty, Samples are small select cuts from a larger slab and may not fully exhibit all the design characteristics of the final installed product. These variations do not affect performance and do not qualify for product replacement. 3. Cambria is durable and resistant to surface damage. However, all stone can be damaged by force and no stone is chip-proof. Objects hitting edges, particularly at sinks or dishwashers, may cause chips. Though a minor knife slip will dull the knife and not harm Cambria Product, no stone surface is scratch-proof. Surface markings are more visible on monotone designs than multicolored design surfaces. 4. Cambria Product is not a seamless product; seams are visible. Where there are seams changes in the product pattern and shade will be visible. 5. Natural stone surfaces can be damaged by sudden and/or rapid change of temperature, especially near the edges, as well as direct and/or sustained heating of the top. Cambria Product may not withstand the direct transfer of heat from pots and pans and other cooking units such as electric frying pans and griddles, slow cookers, roaster ovens, and heat lamps. Therefore, the use of a closed-weave hot pad or solid trivet, like a bread board, is always recommended to prevent heating the product. 6. Cambria Product is not a structural support material and must be supported in every application. 2cm and 3cm thicknesses are for countertops and other horizontal surfaces; 1cm thickness is for vertical surface finishes such as walls and full-height backsplash. 7. Cambria Matte® finish will show surface markings caused during normal use, which are easily removed by simply washing with a soft cotton cloth and warm water; use a mild soap if desired. Cambria Matte® finish does not shine, and may soil and/or appear to stain from soiling, especially when used in heavy traffic areas such as flooring. 8. Installation of Cambria Product requires walls and cabinets to be properly prepared for installation, which includes, but is not limited to, structurally sound, straight, level, and square walls and cabinets. Lack of proper preparation may cause poor installation and poor seam fit or inconsistent countertop overhang and placement. Thank you for your purchase of Cambria. CambriaUSA.com © 2024 CAMBRIA || 1362669\_DI || VERSION 23T-0512 Cambria and the Cambria dragon logo are registered trademarks of Cambria Company LLC. FAMILYOWNED AMERICANMADE